Hello,

my name is Andreas.

// ===
// No, this ist not Bill Gates
// and this is not a garage.
// But in fact I would say,
// that there might be some similarities.
// ===

I want to talk about volatility
of assets, especially cryptocurrencies,
what does it mean for end users and
a solution how to handle this.

The volatility of cryptocurrencies makes usage
and trading difficult.

- Short-term price changes can not or rarely
be addressed, as an individual can not respond
adequately to them at any time.

- The vast majority of traders try to make profits
by coffee grounds reading technique.
They bet on rising prices or sell hastily
if the price threatens to topple.
This amplifies trends the longer they are lasting.
// === (pointing on "chart" pic)
Every little rumor is taken as an opportunity,
to derive a price trend from it.

The consequences are a highly volatile portfolio,
sleepless nights and, in most cases, profit losses.
Me, as a typical end user does not want to spend
a signigicant part of his life in front of the
monitor studying charts. I simply want to secure
my earned fiat money by exchanging it to a currency,
which cannot be devaluated by inflation. And of
course I want to make some profit in the long term,
as I expect increasing acceptance and usage, which
automatically should lead to an increase in value,
when more an more goods and services need to be
mapped to a finite amount of cryptocurrency.
And most important:
I do not want to go to bed as a millionaire
and stand up as a beggar, as the next crash
has happened during the night.

I see a market gap here. End users need support
by professional software, which handles this
volatility without need of Interaction.

The result of this I call it "Balance" Trading Logic.
=== (switching to "water column" pic)

Some advantages of it:
- Foolproof
- Implementation does not need much bandwidth
- Does trade acyclic, similar to the rule:
  "Buy when there's blood in the streets".

How does it function:

The basic idea is to share gains and losses
across all assets in your portfolio.
Within this picture the capitalization of each
asset is represented as a water column.

All water columns are interconnected, so the
water levels in all water columns are about
the same. All interconnections are controlled
by valves, which do open and thus equalize
all water levels again, once the price of one 
asset changes more than a defined hysteresis
interval.
And this is exactly the only one rule defining
this model: The capitalizations of all assets
are in balance, they are about the same,
at any time.

What does that mean in consequence?

Let's say the price for a particular asset
is rising. This would result to an increase
of the water level in related water column.
If the price increases more than the defined
hysteresis interval, all valves get opened
and the water levels get equalized again.
In real this is
performed by selling some of that asset,
whose price is currently increasing and the
sales proceeds is spread amongst all other
assets by purchasing.

Similar, when the price of an asset is falling
- below hysteresis interval -
other assets get partially sold and the
sales proceeds is invested in that asset,
whose price is currently falling.
Figuratively speaking, the water flows from all
other water columns into that column,
which is currently leaking.

What are the results of this algorithm?
=== (switching to "chart2" pic)

If you make profit due to an increasing price,
a part of it gets changed to other assets.
The other way around assets get partially sold,
to invest in a particular one, whose price is
currently falling.
This optimizes the average purchasing price
of that particular asset and thus makes the
asset more profitable on the next price increase

Let me demonstrate this with a portfolio
of two assets:
In the lower part of the chart the black curve
is the price of asset 1.
The red curve is the related capitalization
of asset 1.
The green curve is the capitalization of
asset 2, whose price is constant.
The capitalization curves are overlaid
and have another skaling.

The price of asset 1 increases and breaks
the hysteresis interval, so assets
get rebalanced, which means, that some
of the profit of asset 1 is invested in
asset 2.
Then the price of asset 1 is falling.
At it's minimum the hysteresis interval
has been exceeded again and assets
get rebalanced once again.


Thank you for watching.
